<h>Nik and the Dragon<h>

*Step, step, jump!*

Nik lept up as high as he could as a blade swung up from the floor, narrowly scraping the soles of his boots.

*Shimmy, shimmy, shimmy.*

He squeezed into a narrow crevice in the wall, the stones pressed so tightly against his body that he was sure the hieroglyphs would be imprinted into his flesh.

Hop, hop, stop! Hop, hop, stop!

He felt the floor depress beneath his feet and sweat pour down his dark forehead, but he had to trust the knowledge he’d accumulated over his long journey. Spikes shot out from the right wall and embedded into the left, giant barbs of old metal close enough to his body to make him question his life leading up to this moment. His heart thudded heavily in his chest, even as the spikes retracted back into their original position, the gears of the old mechanisms churning deep inside the stone walls.

Big leap! And slither, slither, curl.

Once Nik was doubly-sure the spike trap was fully retracted, he pulled back and dashed forward, getting as much of a running start as safety would allow before leaping as far as he could. He felt warmth spread from the tattoo of a stallion on his left calf, empowering his leap beyond the ability of any human, but the seconds ticked slowly as the cavernous pit yawned widely beneath his feet. He landed hard against the corner of the walkway on the other side of the chasm, pain shooting through his body and wind rushing from his lungs, but adrenaline pushed him forward and he scrambled breathlessly onto the stone platform. He remained there a moment, panting, catching his breath, calming his shaking body. 

As soon as he was able, he pulled himself up, surveying his surroundings. He was deep underground at this point, but the path was lit with a magical, golden glow emitting from ancient markings carved along the ceiling. Behind him was the gauntlet he’d passed through, a narrow pathway back to the surface where his exhausted and injured companions waited. In front of him was a stone wall, and a slim crawl space definitely not designed for a man of his size. And beyond that…

The heart of Sappath el-Sappah – the dragon’s treasure.

This whole journey, the deaths of his men, the struggle, the loss, the blood, sweat, fear…. All of it was leading up to this, the greatest treasure, so miraculous that a dragon emperor had given his life to seal it up in this place. He was so close he could taste it, the hoard of his lifetime. He would find the treasure, and he would take it back to his people, and they would finally be free.

With that thought, Nik crouched down to the dark crawl space. He nearly died almost every day, from a variety of threats, and he would choose almost any of them over this… but, there was no moving backward, only forward.

He pressed to his chest and crawled into the tiny space. Even he, the greatest treasure hunter on the continent, was terrified of getting stuck there, and he felt the stone pressing against his chest and his back, constricting his movements. He managed to pull himself forward, an inch at a time, the walls scraping and threatening to keep him clutched there forever.

It felt like hours of crawling, inching, slithering, barely breathing, compressed. He resolved to go as far as he could and, miraculously, he managed to go a little further, and a little further, and a little further…

Finally, the compression lifted.

No time for relief; Nik curled up into the tightest ball his large frame could manage, pulling up his knees and tucking his head. Blades slammed into the floor immediately in front and behind him, shaving hairs off the back of his neck. As soon as the blades lifted, Nik shimmied out of the crawlspace as fast as he could.

The space opened into a wide, dimly-lit room, but Nik barely saw it; he leaned up against a wall, panting and sweating, catching his breath and calming his nerves.

Slowly, he became aware of eyes on him.

The room was wide and dark and circular, the floor was not stone but marble tile, and reflected the golden glow of the glowing runes that lined the ceiling. The walls were carved with images, largely cast in shadow but what forms Nik could see were humanoid figures in flowing gowns and fashionable clothing, dancing.

Nik could still feel the eyes, and he rested a head on the hilt of his scimitar as he sought them out. Finally his gaze landed on a shadow darker than the rest, a silhouette seated atop one of the many fallen pillars that scattered across the room, as still as a statue.

“Who goes there?” Nik shouted, his rich voice cutting the silence and echoing in such an uncanny way that it sent a shiver down his spine. “Come forward!”

The figure moved and glided down from the pillar in a flutter of black feathers, its body entering the warm golden radiance of the glyphs.

It was a humanoid, but it was so heavily wrapped in black cloth and feathers that Nik could not make out any details of the creature. It had black wings like a crow, and wore a bone headpiece carved like a bird skull, so that only the creature’s lower face was visible under the white beak.

Nik had heard of these creatures, these birdfolk, the tengu, but had never seen one in person.

“How did you get in here?” Nik demanded, suspicious and frustrated by this unexpected twist.

“Same as you, I imagine,” the crow replied, and the voice that emerged was soft, barely above a whisper.

Nik started to approach in a wide circle, his hand remaining on his sword, but he could see that this bird creature was not large. In fact, the pale hands that emerged from black sleeves were thin, and the creature’s stature was slight beneath the layers of robe. Although he didn’t trust half the stories he heard, crowfolk were known for a dark kind of magic, so Nik didn’t relax his guard. He continued to circle the creature, and the crow remained still and watchful.

“Are you a treasure hunter?” Nik asked, his voice still hard.

“Of a sort,” the crow responded, the low whisper contrasting Nik’s loud tones. “I’m not here for the treasure. I seek the dragon.”

“The dragon is dead.”

“So they say.”

Nik stopped, the thought having never occurred to him. “You believe the dragon is alive?”

But the crow only shrugged and said nothing. 

Reassured that the crow was not an immediate threat, Nik allowed himself to cast his eyes once more around the room, though he still had many questions. He could see now that, yes, the figures carved all along the circular perimeter were indeed dancing.

“How long have you been here?” Nik continued, but the hardness was slipping from his voice. He could see the pillars toppled throughout the large room, scattering stone debris across the marble floor, but otherwise it was… just empty. The far side of the room was shrouded in darkness, but surely there must be a door or passage over there somewhere.

“Hard to say,” the crow answered cryptically, watching him.   

“Why didn’t you continue on?”

“I can’t.”

Nik turned his attention back to the creature. A pause stretched between them, and then the crow exhaled a sigh of resignation, and started to move towards him. Nik’s hand went to the hilt of his sword again, but the crow’s gait was impaired by a limp, and it was clearly not threatening. The crow stopped and pointed to the far side of the room.

“You need two people to cross.”

“Pardon?”

“Look,” the crow reached up and seized the bird skull mask, pulling it off. Beneath it was a human face, a lad less than twenty, with long, blood-colored hair and sharp eyes. He pointed again, this time along the walls. “It’s a dance.”

Nik stared at the face a moment, having never seen crowfolk before, and there was definitely something birdlike in the thin structure of the features, and a little taper in the pale ears that poked out from the flow of blood-red hair. Finally, he pulled his eyes to the carvings on the wall, crossing his arms across his chest while he considered the puzzle before them.

“Aye,” Nik finally concurred. “There’s a spell on this room – I can sense it. But how do I know I can trust you? Or that you’re even real? Why don’t you use them wings and fly across?”

But the crow shook his head. “I tried, the spell must be completed to open the passage. As for trust and realness… well, realness is easy enough to prove, but trust less so. You can always kill me on the other side if you like.”

The crow smiled a small, impish smile, and lifted one pale hand in invitation.  “Well? Shall we practice?”

This whole scenario felt utterly absurd and unreal to Nik, who had encountered magic in his career before, but never anything like this. It was all so dream-like, so beyond reality, that he almost felt as if he’d died in the gauntlet, and now he was in some afterlife where his spirit was disconnected from his body. The carvings along the circumference of the room seemed to indicate a dance known as the Faranese Waltz – Nik was familiar with it, fortunately, from his many espionage endeavors at court. He toured the room carefully but, as the crow had indicated, there was no way out, just solid stone in a wide circle and the crawl space he’d emerged from. 

Moving backwards was not an option.

So, in some absurd thread of fate, he went back to dance with this dark stranger, in an empty underground tomb, lit only by the faint golden glow of runes.

The crow, as it turned out, was naturally graceful and light on his feet, but was not experienced in the finer maneuvers of dancing, and suffered from a wound in his right leg. It was messily bandaged and Nik could pick up the faint scent of blood, but despite all of his cajoling the crow would not allow him to look at or treat the injury, and insisted they clear the room instead.

But after what must’ve been the better part of an hour, the crow’s brow was slick with sweat, his breath was ragged, and his limp was worsening. 

“You’re not in any condition for this,” Nik observed as they stepped and turned for the dozenth time. 

“I’m fine,” the crow rasped back.

“You’ll never make it across.”

The crow stopped suddenly and a thin hand shot out, seizing Nik’s shirt and jerking his face close. It was a grasp that Nik, significantly larger and stronger, could’ve easily broken out of, but something about the lad’s hard eyes held him there for a moment.

“I will make it across,” the crow said, his voice low and laced with ice.

Then he released Nik’s shirt and, almost as quickly as it came, the anger was gone.

“We start here.” The crow walked haggardly over to a set of marble tiles inset with blue stone in the shape of footprints. “Once we start, I don’t think we’ll be able to stop until the end.”

Nik was skeptical but, if they waited any longer the crow’s movement may become even more impaired, and they may lose their chance.

“Remember to start the movement on six,” Nik mumbled, taking the crow’s hand. “Raise on one. Focus on me, I’ll keep the count. Ready?”

The young crow looked at him, his expression unreadable, complicated, nuanced. He gave a small nod.

Almost immediately when the couple began their waltz, the large ballroom became populated with ghostly figures, wavering wraiths twirling together and parting, stepping and dipping and gliding in little orbits. When the living pair stepped correctly, the incorporeal dancers were vibrant and white, almost solid, and when they stumbled the specters flickered and grew dim, becoming transparent, but as long as Nik and his companion recovered quickly, the ghosts never fully disappeared, just flickered and flared in a pulsing glow. There was no music, but in the tempo of the dancers Nik could hear the orchestra in his head, now the strings, now percussion, now the step and the spin.

“One-two-three-” Nik counted, leading the dance, “four-five-six- good-two-three-step-five-six–”

As the speed increased, the dance became harder for the crow, who was now pale as a ghost himself and ragged in breath. The stone debris was difficult to navigate while keeping time and the crow stumbled over sharp rock, his injured leg buckling under the weight. Nik pulled him back up without stopping, supporting the meager weight until the crow could get his legs moving in the proper rhythm again.

“Back-five-six-again-two-three-”

The crow chuckled breathlessly, humorlessly, at the close call. 

They were close now, almost having crossed the entirety of the dancehall, the ghosts still circling all around them, sometimes gliding through them and leaving them chilled to the bone. Some of the marble tiles started to depress now, warning them that there was no more room for misstepping. The exit started to open up, a slab of stone rising to reveal a dark passage, the gears and pulleys grinding behind the walls.

Nik’s trajectory collided with a fallen pillar and he stumbled, stepping onto an incorrect tile, which immediately depressed into an array of metal spikes. The spikes skewered into Nik’s boot and bit into the flesh of his foot, and he gave a shout and collapsed on one knee, pressing another unintended tile. There was a soft pew, pew as the wall spat poison darts at the fallen trespasser, but one of the crow’s wings fanned out in front of Nik, the darts instead embedding into the dark feathers. The wraiths were shrieking wildly now, screaming and screaming, and the pulleys were starting to reverse, the slab beginning to close over the exit. The floor began to shake and an unearthly roar shook through the ballroom, louder than the ghosts, as if the very tomb itself was some great beast waiting to swallow them up.

“Go!” the crow shouted, and Nik was up in the instant, ripping his foot off the spikes with no thought to the pain. Adrenaline pumped through his body, fueling it beyond its limits, and he felt warmth in one arm; the mark of the hare, tattooed on his bicep, leant him its power, and the muscles in his body tightened like springs and launched him into the dark passageway. He landed on the ground and immediately turned for his companion, but the door was closing now, and he could see the dark figure of the crow still out on the dance floor, surrounded by the screaming wraiths. The crow offered him a half-smile and a slight wave, and the slab closed shut, blocking the ballroom from sight.

“No!” Nik shouted and jumped up, banging on the slab and checking all around the walls for any button, lever, pulley, or other mechanism that may open the door from this side.

But there was nothing.

Eventually Nik collapsed against the slab, the adrenaline waning and leaving him exhausted and in pain, and smacked his forehead against the stone, heaving and cursing. 

He hadn’t known the crow but for a few hours, yet… leaving someone behind was never easy, regardless. He could hear nothing from the other side of the wall, and couldn’t find any method of opening the door. So he rested there for a few moments, giving his body and his soul a brief respite, then he pulled himself up and he carried on.

The passage was dim, but he could already see the familiar golden glow of the runes in the next room. He was starting to hate that glow.

The next room was small, and empty, save for a large rectangular coffer in the center. The coffer was gold enameled and wrought in twisting flame designs; the dragon’s treasure. Nik’s instinct pressured him to leap forward, to open it, but he hesitated in the doorway and surveyed the room. Nothing moved, and the air was cold and stale. 

Finally he stepped forward, expecting…. anything. But nothing happened. The ground was packed dirt and solid beneath his feet. The walls were plain and uncarved, except the golden glyphs along the ceiling providing dim light. He took another hesitating step, blood seeping from his boot and leaving a dark trail along the ground.

One-two-three-

And another step.

Four-five-six-

Nik dropped to a crouch in front of the coffer and carefully ran his calloused hands along the wrought gold, checking for any signs of a trap. But he could detect nothing. There was no lock, only a standard latch mechanism. Nik released the latch and opened the coffer, his every sense on edge and hypersensitive to any indication of something, anything.

But all was silent.

So he lifted the lid the rest of the way, and the golden glow of the glyphs slid along the red fabric of a cushion, tucked inside the chest. And inside the cushion, nestled deep in the red folds, was a solid gold orb.

No…. not an orb…

It was an egg.

Nik pulled his hands back in surprise and the lid slammed closed. Breathing heavily, he folded his thick arms over the coffer and buried his head for a moment.

All of that…

They’d come so far…

Trekked across the desert…

Lost men…

Nearly died…

Maybe still will die, if he couldn’t find the exit…

All for a fucking egg.
